Welcome back to Movie Recaps. Today i
will show you a sci-fi horror film called
Splice. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Two scientists, Clive Nicoli and Elsa Kast,
are experts in the field of genetic engineering
that work for a company called Newstead.
The company conducts various experiments
that focus on splicing DNA of different
animals in order to produce new life forms
that would be used for medicinal use.
After many failed attempts, Clive and Elsa
finally manage to succeed in their mission. The
duo watches their creations in awe and decides to
name the two grotesque creatures Fred and Ginger.
The two organisms were meant to be used to produce
medicinal proteins for livestock. Upon seeing the
amazing results and possible opportunities their
experiment holds, Clive and Elsa predict that they
can use the same splicing technique they used
for Fred on humans. The two scientists predict
that if applied correctly, the technique could be
the miracle cure for numerous currently incurable
diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's
disease. Their idea didn’t get the green light
from their employers, Joan Chorot and William
Barlow, who strictly forbade the young scientists
to conduct human experimentation, as that could
potentially lead to bad publicity for the company.
Clive and Elsa decide to undergo their experiments
in secret. After a few unsuccessful attempts,
the two manage to create a successful human slash
animal splice. Excited by their scientific break
trough, Elsa decides to take the genetic material
to the birthing room in order to start the
development of their creation. Clive is opposed
to the idea, but Elsa is keen on continuing
the experiment since it could potentially be a
solution to many human diseases. She convinces
Clive by telling him not to worry as they’re going
to destroy the creature before it reaches full
term, so nobody will ever know. Clive starts the
machine and the conception sequence is started.
Later, Clive is talking to one
of his colleagues. The young man
asks what are he and Elsa working on, but
Clive manages to dodge the question. Meanwhile,
Elsa can be seen examining the incubator. When the
heartbeat of the creature suddenly falls quiet,
she instantly becomes worried, but is quickly
relieved as the heartbeat appears again.
After finishing work, Elsa and Clive are lounging
in their apartment, talking about moving to
a bigger apartment. The conversation continues
and the two get to the topic about having kids,
which makes Elsa visibly nervous. Their
conversation is interrupted by an alarm on
Clive’s phone. They rush to the lab immediately.
Turns out that the fetus is ready to come out,
despite being months away from its planned
birth. Clive’s and Elsa’s attempts to fix
the machine and stop the creature from being born
are unsuccessful, and Elsa injures her hand in the
process. The creature is born, and before it can
escape and do any more damage, Clive manages to
trap it under a plastic container. He goes to help
Elsa, who is convulsing and losing consciousness
due to her wound, which is likely infected by
the creature’s poison. Clive injects her with
some medicine, and she goes back to normal.
Elsa and Clive return to their apartment.
The birth deeply shakes both Clive and Elsa,
with Clive expressing that they should destroy
their creation. Elsa tells Clive that there’s
still a lot they can learn from this situation,
but Clive is set on destroying the creature.
Soon, the both of them head to the lab to kill
the creature, only to find what appears
to be a dead body in the incubator.
Upon further examination, Elsa notices that while
there is a bunch of dead tissue in the incubator,
the entire body of the creature is missing.
Almost immediately, she hears small,
fast footsteps coming towards her. She is met with
a small, chicken-like creature that imprints on
her. Elsa and Clive manage to knock the creature
out and begin to study it, only to find out that
it can excrete venom, even though there was no
predatory gene in its DNA. As the creature's life
continues, it’s revealed that the creature
is aging rapidly due to its defective DNA.
Later that night, Clive meets with Barlow who
informs him that if they can’t sell the medicinal
proteins from Ginger and Fred, Newstead is going
to be in big trouble, and Clive and Elsa would
be to blame. A month passes and the creature has
grown to be very large. Based on the way it acts,
it can be concluded that it possesses a human
toddler level of intelligence. Elsa forms a
bond with the creature, treating it more like a
child than a science experiment, much to Clive's
worry. She goes as far as letting the creature
out of its containment area and taking the cover
off its stinger. After the creature spells
NERD out of toys after it sees the company’s
name on Elsa’s shirt, Elsa decided to name the
creature Dren, which is NERD spelled backwards.
Elsa’s treatment of Dren leads to an
argument between Elsa and Clive. Apparently,
their experiment is in trouble of getting
uncovered, since their lab is set to be renovated,
which opens a possibility for someone to see their
forbidden experiment. That’s when Gavin, Clive’s
brother in the lab and fellow college, sneaks into
the room to eaves trope on their conversation, but
unexpectedly runs into Dren. Terrified, he quickly
flees the scene. In order to keep Dren a secret,
Clive and Elsa decide to sneak Dren out in a card
box and hide her in a storage area, away from
prying eyes. To their dismay, Dren has a really
high fever, which greatly worries Elsa. Elsa
and Clive quickly put Dren in a cold water bath
in order to soothe her fever. When Clive holds
Dren underwater, it is revealed that the creature
developed dubious lungs. That night, Elsa takes
care of Dren, giving it a Barbie doll which she
had to hide from her mother when she was a child.
As time went on, Dren has grown to be
significantly larger, with a more human, womanly
appearance. As Elsa and Clive fool around and end
up having intercourse on the couch, Dren can be
seen secretly watching them from the next room.
The next day, Clive and Elsa present their
original hybrid creations, Fred and Ginger,
to the public. Unfortunately, the presentation
goes horribly wrong, as the two creatures turn
extremely violent and fight each other to death.
After examining the situation, Clive and Elsa
found out that Ginger transformed into a male.
The reason as to why she did so remained
unknown. Elsa and Clive decide to move Dren
into an old farmhouse Elsa’s mother once owned.
When they get to the farm, Dren runs off to find
some food. After setting up Dren’s room in the
barn, Elsa and Clive proceed to the farmhouse.
Upon opening the door, they’re met with a filthy
room with a bed, a single chair and a bucket,
which indicates that Elsa lived in an
abusive environment when she was younger.
Meanwhile, Dren is not satisfied with her life
on the farm. With her creators gone from work
all the time and only a cat to keep her company,
Dren becomes rebellious, which Clive takes well,
in contrast to Elsa, who is deeply disturbed by
it. In order to keep Dren at bay, Elsa decides to
stay at home and keep Dren company. To make Dren
happy, Elsa showers her in make-up and jewelry,
which Elsa’s mother strictly forbade when Elsa
was a child. When Elsa checks the makeup table,
she finds numerous drawings of Clive, but not a
single one of her. Dren grows nervous at Elsa’s
find and runs away to her cat, which Elsa takes
away, telling Dren she can't get everything she
wants, which is a part of growing up. When Clive
arrives home he finds Dren sad, and tries to cheer
her up by turning on some music and dancing with
her. While dancing, Clive felt forbidden feelings
towards Dren and soon comes to the realization
that Elsa used parts of her DNA whilst they
were creating Dren. He goes to confront Elsa, the
two clash and Clive leaves. After Clive is gone,
Elsa decides to give Dren back the cat she
previously took away, but Dren kills it, causing
Elsa to slap Dren across the face. Dren pounced at
Elsa so she could steal the barn keys to escape,
but is knocked out and strapped to an operating
table. Elsa begins to take off Dren’s jewelry and
clothes, and due to her violent behavior,
removes her stinger. When Clive arrives,
Elsa takes the stinger back to the lab to find
the proteins and synthesize them for her work.
The next day, Clive goes to the farm to find
Elsa but is met by Dren, who tries to seduce him.
Clive initially declines, but ultimately succumbs
to Dren’s advances and the two have intercourse.
During the act, it can be seen that Dren has
regenerated her previously amputated stinger.
To Clive’s horror, Elsa walks in on them and
runs away in disgust. Clive runs to her, and
both of them enter their car and drive to their
old apartment, where they have an argument about
Elsa’s views on Dren. It is revealed that Elsa
wanted to create a child, instead of traditionally
having a child because she desperately wanted
to have control over the said child, a need that
probably stems from her abusive childhood. When
they finished their argument, the two come back
to the farmhouse, only to find Dren dead in her
bed. They bury Dren’s body and burn her clothes.
Whilst moving Dren’s things, Elsa finds Dren’s
drawings of herself. That’s where Gavin and Barlow
arrive, having found out about Elsa’s and Clive’s
secret. Before they can engage in conversation,
Dren suddenly appears, now looking more masculine,
indicating that Dren too, like Ginger, transformed
into the opposite gender. Dren becomes aggressive,
killing Barlow and Gavin, and pouncing on Clive.
Elsa manages to run away into the woods but
doesn't get very far, as Dren catches up with
her quickly. Dren pounces on Elsa and presses her
to the ground and forces intercourse with her,
but is stopped by Clive, who impales Dren
with a branch from behind. Dren attacks Clive,
which leads to Elsa bashing a rock on Dren’s
head, killing the creature once and for all.
In the aftermath of all this, Elsa is still a
Newstead employee and has been granted permission
to continue her research into proteins that
were present in Dren’s body. When she stands up,
she is visibly pregnant, which hints at the
possibility that she is carrying Dren’s child.